README.md, before:

![KIFU](frontend/public/logo/kifu-logo-wordmark.svg)

# KIFU

**A trading journal and AI review platform for better decision quality.**

[🇺🇸 English](./README.md) · [🇰🇷 한국어](./README.ko.md)

![KIFU Hero](docs/marketing/assets/readme-hero-home.svg)

KIFU turns trading activity into a structured feedback loop:
- Capture trades and portfolio changes
- Add context-driven review notes
- Compare AI feedback with actual outcomes
- Improve decision quality over time

## Problem KIFU Solves

1. Post-trade review data is fragmented across tools.
2. AI advice is hard to validate against actual results.
3. Review routines are not consistent, so improvement repeats less.

KIFU unifies this as: **Ingest → Record → Review → Improve**.

## Core Features

- Trading & portfolio ingestion (exchange sync, CSV import, manual input)
- AI opinion capture and comparison
- Layer-based review sessions for sentiment, pattern, and reasoning logging
- Bubble timeline and chart replay for side-by-side analysis
- KPI dashboards and outcome analysis
- Alerting, secure auth, token management

## Summary Pack

### v1.0 (default baseline)
- Client explicitly provides `source_run_id` to generate a pack.
- Focus: predictable, source-controlled generation and reproducibility.

### v1.1 (extension)
- Server automatically selects the latest eligible completed run.
- New endpoint: `POST /api/v1/packs/generate-latest`
- Returns `NO_COMPLETED_RUN` when no completed run is available.

> See `docs/spec/summary-pack-v1.md` and `docs/runbook/summary-pack-v1.md`.

## Architecture

- Backend: Go + Fiber
- Frontend: React + TypeScript + Vite
- Data: PostgreSQL, Redis
- AI Providers: OpenAI / Claude / Gemini (feature-flagged)

## Quick Start

```bash
# Clone
# git clone https://github.com/nyuk/kifu.git
cd kifu-project

# Backend
cd backend
cp .env.example .env
go mod download
go run ./cmd

# Frontend (new terminal)
cd frontend
cp .env.example .env
npm install
npm run dev
```

- Backend: `http://localhost:8080`
- Frontend: `http://localhost:5173`

## Docs

- Design: `docs/01-plan/*`, `docs/02-design/*`
- Specs: `docs/spec/*`
- Runbooks: `docs/runbook/*`
- Analysis: `docs/03-analysis/*`
- NLM bundle: `docs/nlm/*`

## GitHub profile text (About)

GitHub repository **description** supports a single text field, so use English as default and keep Korean in README:

- **Recommended Description**
  - `Trading journal and AI review platform for retrospective analysis: bubbles, portfolio, chart replay, and AI comparison.`
- **Recommended Topics**
  - `trading`, `journal`, `review`, `trading-journal`, `go`, `fiber`, `react`, `vite`, `ai`, `portfolio`, `chart`

## Marketing

- X(Twitter) playbook: `docs/marketing/twitter-playbook.md`
- Post queue sample: `docs/marketing/x-post-queue.sample.json`
- Core message: "turn trading records into decision-quality feedback"

## Contributing

1. Open an Issue or PR.
2. Describe scope, behavior change, and test impact.
3. Note operational impacts (security/data/performance).

## License

Project and content licensing is governed by internal policy. Check `LICENSE` or your release documentation before public distribution.

Commit message:

docs: apply global English-first v1.0-first language policy header

README.md, after:

> **Language policy (v1.0-first, English default):**
> - Primary language for repo documentation: English.
> - Baseline is v1.0; v1.1 changes are documented as extension notes only.
> - 한국어는 보조 문맥(필요 시)로 제공됩니다.

![KIFU](frontend/public/logo/kifu-logo-wordmark.svg)

# KIFU

**A trading journal and AI review platform for better decision quality.**

[🇺🇸 English](./README.md) · [🇰🇷 한국어](./README.ko.md)

![KIFU Hero](docs/marketing/assets/readme-hero-home.svg)

KIFU turns trading activity into a structured feedback loop:
- Capture trades and portfolio changes
- Add context-driven review notes
- Compare AI feedback with actual outcomes
- Improve decision quality over time

## Problem KIFU Solves

1. Post-trade review data is fragmented across tools.
2. AI advice is hard to validate against actual results.
3. Review routines are not consistent, so improvement repeats less.

KIFU unifies this as: **Ingest → Record → Review → Improve**.

## Core Features

- Trading & portfolio ingestion (exchange sync, CSV import, manual input)
- AI opinion capture and comparison
- Layer-based review sessions for sentiment, pattern, and reasoning logging
- Bubble timeline and chart replay for side-by-side analysis
- KPI dashboards and outcome analysis
- Alerting, secure auth, token management

## Summary Pack

### v1.0 (default baseline)
- Client explicitly provides `source_run_id` to generate a pack.
- Focus: predictable, source-controlled generation and reproducibility.

### v1.1 (extension)
- Server automatically selects the latest eligible completed run.
- New endpoint: `POST /api/v1/packs/generate-latest`
- Returns `NO_COMPLETED_RUN` when no completed run is available.

> See `docs/spec/summary-pack-v1.md` and `docs/runbook/summary-pack-v1.md`.

## Architecture

- Backend: Go + Fiber
- Frontend: React + TypeScript + Vite
- Data: PostgreSQL, Redis
- AI Providers: OpenAI / Claude / Gemini (feature-flagged)

## Quick Start

```bash
# Clone
# git clone https://github.com/nyuk/kifu.git
cd kifu-project

# Backend
cd backend
cp .env.example .env
go mod download
go run ./cmd

# Frontend (new terminal)
cd frontend
cp .env.example .env
npm install
npm run dev
```

- Backend: `http://localhost:8080`
- Frontend: `http://localhost:5173`

## Docs

- Design: `docs/01-plan/*`, `docs/02-design/*`
- Specs: `docs/spec/*`
- Runbooks: `docs/runbook/*`
- Analysis: `docs/03-analysis/*`
- NLM bundle: `docs/nlm/*`

## GitHub profile text (About)

GitHub repository **description** supports a single text field, so use English as default and keep Korean in README:

- **Recommended Description**
  - `Trading journal and AI review platform for retrospective analysis: bubbles, portfolio, chart replay, and AI comparison.`
- **Recommended Topics**
  - `trading`, `journal`, `review`, `trading-journal`, `go`, `fiber`, `react`, `vite`, `ai`, `portfolio`, `chart`

## Marketing

- X(Twitter) playbook: `docs/marketing/twitter-playbook.md`
- Post queue sample: `docs/marketing/x-post-queue.sample.json`
- Core message: "turn trading records into decision-quality feedback"

## Contributing

1. Open an Issue or PR.
2. Describe scope, behavior change, and test impact.
3. Note operational impacts (security/data/performance).

## License

Project and content licensing is governed by internal policy. Check `LICENSE` or your release documentation before public distribution.
